>> Brian Holt: So pictured here
is a valid binary search tree.
Here's a link if you wanna go down and
see the other one.
>> Brian Holt: So I've given you
this tree, this data structure.
I want you to serialize it.
And when I say serialize it,
I just want you to make it into something
you can console log basically, right?
Because I love console logging everything.
[LAUGH] I want you to make
it into a flat array.
How are you going to do that?
And we're gonna talk about four
different strategies to how to do this.
So, the first one, which I think, for
me, is my natural way of thinking.
That's usually where I like to start is
what is the most human way to think about
this and then I optimize from there to
more computer optimized ways of thinking.
I think of things in terms
of depth-first traversal.
And usually, I go with pre-order.
That's just the way that my
brain thinks about things.
Because I wanna go as deep
in the tree first, and
then start serializing things from there.
Pre-order traversal is I'm gonna add 8 and
then I'm gonna process everything
in the subtree, right?
So I'm gonna add myself, and
then I'm gonna add everything
in the left subtree, right?
Once I do everything on the left subtree,
then I'm gonna do everything
in the right subtree, right?
So first, add yourself, then process left
tree, then process right tree, right?
That's pre order traversal.
So I'm gonna add 8.
Then I'm going to left subtree and
I'm gonna add 3.
And then I'm gonna go into left
subtree of that, I'm gonna add 1.
Then I'm gonna process everything
in the right subtree of 3, right?
So then I'm gonna add 4,
6, 7, 10, 14, 13, right?
So if you look here, I basically go
through all of these steps of what I said
here, and you end up with 8,
3, 1, 6, 4, 7, 10, 14, 13.
Right?
Does that make sense?
So yeah.
>> Brian Holt: I'm gonna
say the word process node.
When I say process node,
it means you're gonna do whatever
you're going to do, right?
In our particular case of my example,
you're going to add something to an array.
That's the processing of a node, right?
So you're gonna process the node, then do
the left tree, then do the right tree.
And that is preorder traversal, right?
Now what you're left with here, 8, 3, 1.
This is nonsensical in the sense
that it's not a sorted list.
Despite that fact that our tree
actually does have order to it, right?
That's what a binary search tree has,
is it has order.
So, what if I want you to print
these things out in order, right?
You might do what's called
an inorder traversal, right?
So, what you're going to do is
you're going to process the,
sorry, your gonna do
the left subtree first.
Then your going to process
the node that your on.
And then your going to do
the right subtree, right?
So I'm gonna go, start with 8 right?
Because you always star
with the root node.
Then I'm going to process
the left subtree, right?
So I'm going to go down here to the left.
Which is 3.
This is one is going to go
to the left subtree as well.
And it's gonna go to 1.
1 has no left child, right?
So it processes itself.
Then it tries to process the right child,
which again doesn't have a right child so
it's just returns after processing itself.
So, it goes back up to 3.
3 now processes itself 3, right?
And then it processes the right subchild,
so then it goes down to 6.
Then 6 goes down to 4, 4 processes itself,
goes back up to 6,
6 adds itself then it goes to the 7,
7 adds itself you go all the way
back up here to 8, 8 adds itself.
Then 10, then goes to 14, and
14 doesn't process itself yet.
It goes to 13, then 13 does, and then 14.
So you end up with [1, 3,
5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 13, 14].
You end up assorted lists, cool?
Then you're probably getting like how
these are different from each other we're
gonna do post order traversal,
which means that
you're gonna do all the children first and
then add yourself right?
So 8, 3, 1,right?
and then 1 has no children,
so 1 adds itself, right?
Then it goes back up here.
3 still does not add itself to the list.
It goes down to 6, then 4.
So 4 is going to add itself.
Then 7, then 6, then 3, then 8.
Then you go down to 13.
Then 14 to 10 and then 8.
So, if you go down here,
>> Brian Holt: so one thing is,
when you're doing postorder,
definitely a root node is always
going to be the last thing processed.
Follows right?
Because it's gonna process
all the left tree and
the right tree and then add itself.
So let's talk about when you
would use any one of these.
First of all, does anyone have any
questions about these particular things?
>> Brian Holt: So it's just a matter
of changing what order you're going to
process the nodes in.
That's the whole gist of the three
variance of depth first traversal.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
let's talk about when you would use these.
So in preorder reversal, I thought I had.
Right here, cool.
So if you want a sorted list out of a BST,
inorder traversal is
exactly how you do that.
That's almost why it exists.
If you're trying to make
a deep copy of a tree, so
I have this binary search tree and
I want to create an exact copy of it,
that would be a really really useful
time to use preorder traversal, right?
Because you want to create a node, and
then you want to add a left child and
then add a right child, right?
So that's when preorder would be really,
really useful,
because you can't add children to
something that doesn't exist yet.
So that's when you would need preorder.
Now, imagine if you were
trying to delete a tree.
Well, if you try and delete something,
and then go to find its children,
because it's already been deleted,
you couldn't find its children, right?
So that's when postorder
would be really useful.
Because you would go delete
everything in the left tree, rather,
delete everything in the right tree,
and then delete the node itself, right?
So that's when a postorder traversal
would be really, really, useful.